# Pre-Engagement
Pre-engagement is the stage of preparation for the actual penetration test. During this stage, many questions are asked, and some contractual agreements are made. The client informs us about what they want to be tested, and we explain in detail how to make the test as efficient as possible.

Three essential components:
1. Scoping questionnaire
2. Pre-engagement meeting
3. Kick-off meeting

Before this, a NDA must be signed by all parties. Several types exist:
- Unilateral: only one party has to maintain confidentiality (the other is allowed to share)
- Bilateral NDA: both parties are obligated to keep the resulting and acquired information confidential. Most common type to protect the work of pentesters.
- Multilateral NDA: commitment to confidentiality by more than two parties. E.g. for a cooperative network.

Exceptions can be made in urgent cases (jump into the kick-off meeting, via videoconference for example).

##### Who has the authority ?
Be careful to know who in the company is permitted to contract us for a penetration test.
Non-exhaustive list of potential persons:
- Chief Executive Officer (CEO)
- Chief Technical Officer (CTO)
- Chief Information Security Officer (CISO)
- Chief Security Officer (CSO)
- Chief Risk Officer (CRO)
- Chief Information Officer (CIO)
- VP of Internal Audit
- Audit Manager
- VP or Director of IT/Information Security
##### Documents
|**Document**|**Timing for Creation**|
|---|---|
|`1. Non-Disclosure Agreement` (`NDA`)|`After` Initial Contact|
|`2. Scoping Questionnaire`|`Before` the Pre-Engagement Meeting|
|`3. Scoping Document`|`During` the Pre-Engagement Meeting|
|`4. Penetration Testing Proposal` (`Contract/Scope of Work` (`SoW`))|`During` the Pre-engagement Meeting|
|`5. Rules of Engagement` (`RoE`)|`Before` the Kick-Off Meeting|
|`6. Contractors Agreement` (Physical Assessments)|`Before` the Kick-Off Meeting|
|`7. Reports`|`During` and `after` the conducted Penetration Test|
>Note: Our client may provide a separate scoping document listing in-scope IP addresses/ranges/URLs and any necessary credentials but this information should also be documented as an appendix in the RoE document.

>**Important Note:** These documents should be reviewed and adapted by a lawyer after they have been prepared.

## Scoping Questionnaire
After initial contact, we send it to the client to better understand the services they are seeking.
Should clearly explain our services.
May typically ask them to choose one or more from this list:
- Internal Vulnerability Assessment
- External Vulnerability Assessment
- Internal Penetration Test
- External Penetration Test
- Wireless Security Assessment
- Application Security Assessment
- Physical Security Assessment
- Social Engineering Assessment
- Red Team Assessment
- Web Application Security Assessment

Each choice need sub-choices, allowing the client to be more specific.
>Do they need a web application or mobile application assessment? Secure code review? Should the Internal Penetration Test be black box and semi-evasive? Do they want just a phishing assessment as part of the Social Engineering Assessment or also vishing calls?

This is our chance to explain the depth of our services.
