## Proof-of-Concept

For us in information security, this is where we prove vulnerabilities in operating systems or application software.

We use this PoC to prove that a security problem exists so that the developers or administrators can validate it, reproduce it, see the impact, and test their remediation efforts. One of the most common examples used to prove software vulnerabilities is executing the calculator (calc.exe on Windows) on the target system. In principle, the PoC also assesses the probability of success of system access from actual exploitation.

Can be:

- documentation
- script
- code

It is important for the administrators to understand that the goal is not to make the PoC-script fail, as the same vulnerability can be used in a different way, but rather to fix the root of the problem, the vulnerability itself.

> The report they receive from us should help them see the entire picture, focus on the broader issues, and provide clear remediation advice. Including an attack chain walkthrough in the event of domain compromise during an internal is a great way to show how multiple flaws can be combined and how fixing one flaw will break the chain, but the other flaws will still exist. If these are not also fixed, there may be another path to get to the point where the attack chain was remediated and continue onwards. We should also drive this point home during our report review meeting.

For example, if a user uses the password `Password123`, the underlying vulnerability is not the password but the `password policy`. If a Domain Admin is found to be using that password and it is changed, that one account will now have a stronger password, but the problem of weak passwords will likely still be endemic within the organization.

## Post-Engagement

Like before the pentest itself, there is several things to do after it.

### Cleanup

- Deleting scripts or tool uploaded to the target IS
- Reverting changes in configuration

This should be easy if we did take notes during the penetration process.

If we cannot access a system where an artifact needs to be deleted, or another change reverted, we should alert the client and list these issues in the report appendices. Even if we can remove any uploaded files and revert changes (such as adding a local admin account), we should document these changes in our report appendices in case the client receives alerts that they need to follow up on and confirm that the activity in question was part of our sanctioned testing.

## Documentation and Reporting

Before closing all connections to the client's network, we have to make sure we have all the necessary material for all findings we wish to include in our report.
This includes command output, screenshots, a listing of affected hosts, and anything else specific to the client environment or finding.

We should not keep any Personal Identifiable Information (PII), potentially incriminating info, or other sensitive data we came across throughout testing.

We should already have a detailed list of the findings we will include in the report and all necessary details to tailor the findings to the client's environment. Our report deliverable (which is covered in detail in the [[Documentation & Reporting]] module) should consist of the following:

- An attack chain (in the event of full internal compromise or external to internal access) detailing steps taken to achieve compromise
- A strong executive summary that a non-technical audience can understand
- Detailed findings specific to the client's environment that include a risk rating, finding impact, remediation recommendations, and high-quality external references related to the issue
- Adequate steps to reproduce each finding so the team responsible for remediation can understand and test the issue while putting fixes in place
- Near, medium, and long-term recommendations specific to the environment
- Appendices which include information such as the target scope, OSINT data (if relevant to the engagement), password cracking analysis (if relevant), discovered ports/services, compromised hosts, compromised accounts, files transferred to client-owned systems, any account creation/system modifications, an Active Directory security analysis (if relevant), relevant scan data/supplementary documentation, and any other information necessary to explain a specific finding or recommendation further

At this point we have a draft, then comes

### Report Review Meeting

Once the draft report is delivered, and the client has had a chance to distribute it internally and review it in-depth, it is customary to hold a report review meeting to walk through the assessment results. The report review meeting typically includes the same folks from the client and the firm performing the assessment. Depending on the types of findings, the client may bring in additional technical subject matter experts if the finding is related to a system or application they are responsible for. Typically we will not read the entire report word for word but walk through each finding briefly and give an explanation from our own perspective/experience. The client will have the opportunity to ask questions about anything in the report, ask for clarifications, or point out issues that need to be corrected. Often the client will come with a list of questions about specific findings and will not want to cover every finding in detail (such as low-risk ones).

### Deliverable Acceptance

DRAFT = ask for client's feedback
FINAL = final.

Some audit firms may not accept DRAFT.

### Post-Remediation Testing

Most engagements include post-remediation testing as part of the project's total cost. In this phase, we will review any documentation provided by the client showing evidence of remediation or just a list of remediated findings. We will need to reaccess the target environment and test each issue to ensure it was appropriately remediated. We will issue a post-remediation report that clearly shows the state of the environment before and after post-remediation testing. For example, we may include a table such as:

| # | Finding Severity | Finding Title                          | Status         |
| :- | :--------------- | :------------------------------------- | :------------- |
| 1 | High             | SQL Injection                          | Remediated     |
| 2 | High             | Broken Authentication                  | Remediated     |
| 3 | High             | Unrestricted File Upload               | Remediated     |
| 4 | High             | Inadequate Web and Egress Filtering    | Not Remediated |
| 5 | Medium           | SMB Signing Not Enabled                | Not Remediated |
| 6 | Low              | Directory Listing Enabled              | Not Remediated |

For each finding (where possible), we will want to show evidence that the issue is no longer present in the environment through scan output or proof that the original exploitation techniques fail.

### Role of the Pentester in Remediation

We must remain impartial third-parties.
We give advice but do not implement changes ourselves.
or even giving precise remediation advice (i.e., for SQL Injection, we may say "sanitize user input" but not give the client a rewritten piece of code)

This will help maintain the assessment's integrity and not introduce any potential conflict of interest into the process.

### Data Retention

After the PT we will have a big amount of data on the customer.
Laws can vary.

> While there are currently no PCI DSS requirements regarding the retention of evidence collected by the penetration tester, it is a recommended best practice that the tester retain such evidence (whether internal to the organization or a third-party provider) for a period of time while considering any local, regional, or company laws that must be followed for the retention of evidence. This evidence should be available upon request from the target entity or other authorized entities as defined in the rules of engagement.

We should retain evidence for some time after the penetration test in case questions arise about specific findings or to assist with retesting "closed" findings after the client has performed remediation activities. Any data retained after the assessment should be stored in a secure location owned and controlled by the firm and encrypted at rest. All data should be wiped from tester systems at the conclusion of an assessment. A new virtual machine specific to the client in question should be created for any post-remediation testing or investigation of findings related to client inquiries.

### Close Out

At this stage, we should ensure that any systems used to connect to the client's systems or process data have been wiped or destroyed and that any artifacts leftover from the engagement are stored securely (encrypted) per our firm's policy and per contractual obligations to our client. The final steps would be invoicing the client and collecting payment for services rendered. Finally, it is always good to follow up with a post-assessment client satisfaction survey so the team and management, in particular, can see what went well during the engagement and what could be improved upon from a company process standpoint and the individual consultant assigned to the project. Discussions for follow-on work may arise in the weeks or months after if the client was pleased with our work and day-to-day interactions.

As we continually grow our technical skillset, we should always look for ways to improve our soft skills and become more well-rounded professional consultants. In the end, the `client will usually remember interactions` during the assessment, communication, and how they were treated/valued by the firm they engage, `not the fancy exploit chain the pentester pulled off to pwn their systems`. Take this time to self-reflect and work on continuous improvement in all aspects of your role as a professional penetration tester.

